.\" @(#)kbd_mode.1 1.0 940406 aeb
.TH KBD_MODE 1 "6 Apr 1994" "kbd"
.SH NAME
kbd_mode \- report or set the keyboard mode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B kbd_mode
[
.I -a | -u | -k | -s | -d 
] [
.I -f
] [
.I -C CONSOLE
]
.SH DESCRIPTION
.IX "kbd_mode command" "" "\fLkbd_mode\fR command"  
.LP
Without argument,
.B kbd_mode
prints the current keyboard mode (RAW, MEDIUMRAW or XLATE). Using the options
it is possible to switch the keyboard mode of the current console or
the specified console.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B -a, --ascii
set ASCII mode (XLATE).
.TP
.B -k, --keycode
set keycode mode (MEDIUMRAW).
.TP
.B -s, --scancode
set scancode mode (RAW).
.TP
.B -u, --unicode
set UTF-8 mode (UNICODE).
.TP
.B -d, --disable
set Disable mode (OFF).
.TP
.B -f, --force
switch the mode even if it makes the keyboard unusable.
.TP
.B -C, --console=DEV
the console device to be used.
.LP

Of course the "\-a" is only traditional, and the code used can be any
8-bit character set.  With "\-u" a 16-bit character set is expected,
and these chars are transmitted to the kernel as 1, 2, or 3 bytes
(following the UTF-8 coding).
In these latter two modes the key mapping defined by
.BR loadkeys (1)
is used.

The Didable mode for the virtual console keyboard OFF to compliment RAW
in which all key events are ignored. The mode prevents vt input
buffers from overflowing when a program opens but doesn't read from a
tty, like Xorg using only evdev for input.

kbd_mode operates on the console specified by the "\-C" option; if there
is none, the console associated with stdin is used.

Warning: changing the keyboard mode, other than between ASCII and
Unicode, will probably make your keyboard unusable. Set the "\-f" option
to force such changes.
This command is only meant for use (say via remote login)
when some program left your keyboard in the wrong state.
Note that in some obsolete versions of this program the "\-u"
option was a synonym for "\-s" and older versions of this program may
not recognize the "\-f" option.
.SH AUTHORS
Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR loadkeys (1)

