.\" Copyright 1994-95 Jon Tombs (jon@gtex02.us.es, jon@robots.ox.ac.uk)
.\" May be distributed under the GNU General Public License
.TH OPENVT 1 "24 October 2024" "kbd"
.SH NAME
openvt \- start a program on a new virtual terminal (VT).
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B openvt
[\-c vtnumber] [OPTIONS] [\-\-] command
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B openvt
will find the first available VT, and run on it the given
.B command
with the given
.B "command options",
standard input, output and error are directed to that terminal. The current
search path ($PATH) is used to find the requested command. If no command is
specified then the environment variable $SHELL is used.
.SS OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-c\fR, \fB\-\-console\fR=\fI\,VTNUMBER\/\fR
Use the given VT number and not the first available. Note you
must have write access to the supplied VT for this to work.
.TP
\fB\-f\fR, \fB\-\-force\fR
Force opening a VT without checking whether it is already in use.
.TP
\fB\-e\fR, \fB\-\-exec\fR
Directly execute the given command, without forking.
This option is meant for use in
.IR /etc/inittab .
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-switch\fR
Switch to the new VT when starting the command. The VT of the new command
will be made the new current VT.
.TP
\fB\-u\fR, \fB\-\-user\fR
Figure out the owner of the current VT, and run login as that user.
Suitable to be called by init. Shouldn't be used with \fI\-c\fR or \fI\-l\fR.
.TP
\fB\-l\fR, \fB\-\-login\fR
Make the command a login shell. A \- is prepended to the name of the command
to be executed.
.TP
\fB\-v\fR, \fB\-\-verbose\fR
Be a bit more verbose.
.TP
\fB\-w\fR, \fB\-\-wait\fR
wait for command to complete. If \-w and \-s are used together then
.B openvt
will switch back to the controlling terminal when the command completes.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print program version and exit.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
show this text and exit.
.TP
\fB\-\-\fR
end of options to
.BR openvt .
.SH NOTE
If
.B openvt
is compiled with a getopt_long() and you wish to set
options to the command to be run, then you must supply
the end of options \-\- flag before the command.
.SH EXAMPLES
.B openvt
can be used to start a shell on the next free VT, by using the command:
.TP
.I "openvt bash"
.TP

To start the shell as a login shell, use:
.TP
.I "openvt -l bash"
.TP

To get a long listing you must supply the \-\- separator:
.TP
.I "openvt -- ls -l"
.SH HISTORY
Earlier,
.B openvt
was called
.BR open .
It was written by Jon Tombs <jon@gtex02.us.es> or <jon@robots.ox.ac.uk>.
The \fI\-w\fR idea is from "sam".

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR chvt (1),
.BR deallocvt (1),
.BR vlock (1),
.BR login (1)
