.TH GETUNIMAP 8 "24 October 2024" "kbd"

.SH NAME
getunimap \- dump the unicode map for the current console to stdout

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B getunimap
[\fI\,options\/\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B getunimap
program is old and obsolete. It is now part of
.B setfont (1).
.LP
The
.B getunimap
program outputs the unicode map (also called a "Screen Font Map")
for the current console to standard output.
.LP
The
.B \-C
option may be used with Linux 2.6.1 and later to get the map for
a console different from the current one. Its argument is a pathname.
.LP
The output of
.B getunimap
is of the form
.LP
.RS
	0xAA U+1234 # comment
.RE
.LP
where 0xAA is the font character code and U+1234 is a unicode character,
that if displayed, will be displayed using glyph 0xAA in the font.
Many unicode characters may be mapped to the same glyph.
.br
the Hash symbol
.B #
is used as a comment delimiter; characters after a hash sign (to the end of
the line) are comments.
.P
The
.B \-s
option will sort and merge elements, sorting on font character.
Hence, it will produce output of the form:
.LP
.RS
	0x22 U+1234 U+5678 U+3456
.br
	0x23 U+0023
.RE
.LP
	etc., listing the multiple unicode characters that map to a font glyph.
.P
The output of
.B getunimap
is of the form accepted by
.B setfont
and
.B psfaddtable

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\fB\-s\fR, \fB\-\-sort\fR
sort and merge elements.
.TP
\fB\-C\fR, \fB\-\-console\fR=\fI\,DEV\/\fR
the console device to be used.
.TP
\fB\-V\fR, \fB\-\-version\fR
print version number.
.TP
\fB\-h\fR, \fB\-\-help\fR
print this usage message.

.SH SEE ALSO
.BR psfaddtable (1),
.BR setfont (1).
